The Military Load Classification (MLC) is a system used by NATO and the US Department of Defense to classify bridges and vehicles based on their load-carrying capacity.
This system is used to ensure that vehicles don't exceed the weight capacity of the bridges they cross.

MLC assignments

	Vehicles are assigned MLC numbers that represent the size of the vehicle and the loading effects that it has on a bridge. The MLC of a vehicle depends on a combination of factors, including 
	gross weight, number of axles, axle spacing, axle width, and weight distribution to the axles. It's usually determined by the manufacturer and included in the vehicle's specifications. 
	There isn't a "formula" to calculate the MLC rating of a vehicle, because it's not calculated from other parameters - it's just a measure of the vehicle's total weight under typical fully loaded conditions.
	The MLC rating system includes two types of ratings for vehicles: normal and caution. 
		The normal MLC rating is for when the vehicle is moving at a steady speed not exceeding 10 mph. 
		The caution MLC rating is for when the vehicle is moving at a higher speed, or if it's accelerating or decelerating.



	Bridges are assigned MLC numbers that represent the largest vehicle classification that the bridge can safely support as part of an occasional convoy with the vehicles spaced 100 ft apart 
	and traveling at a maximum speed of 25 miles per hour.




For convoys, the MLC rating is usually determined by the vehicle with the highest MLC rating in the convoy. 
This is because the convoy can only move as fast and cross bridges that are rated for the heaviest vehicle in the convoy.

However, it's also possible to calculate a convoy's MLC rating based on the sum of the MLC ratings of the vehicles in the convoy, 
if the vehicles are close enough together that they might all be on a bridge at the same time. 
This is a more conservative approach and may limit the convoy's movement options.


As long as the MLC of the largest vehicle in a convoy does not exceed the MLC of the bridge, the 
bridge can safely withstand occasional use by the convoy.


The MLC values differ for wheeled and tracked vehicles and for one and two-lane operation. Up to four MLC values can be assigned to a single bridge. These procedures assume that the bridge superstructure is the 
controlling or limiting feature in bridge classification. The substructure, which includes footings, abutments, piers, piles, posts, and other supports, is usually overdesigned to compensate for 
uncertainties in the underlying soil properties. 